[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Well, welcome back
to another edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory and we have an
amazing program for you here.
Dan Hurley our special guest.
He is an award winning
science writer.
But let's let you see this.
ANNOUNCER: Psychologists
once held that intelligence
was fixed from birth.
But in 2008, a
major study revealed
that people could
actually improve
their fluid intelligence
with training.
Dan Hurley, an
award-winning journalist,
is the author of Smarter: The
New Science of Building Brain
Power.
In it, he chronicles the
field still in its infancy.
And he didn't remain
a casual observer.
The book find some
actively participating
in brain building exercises and
reaping the cognitive rewards.
Dan explains how we can all
increase our brain's power
with a little work,
today on "Beyond Belief."
>>NOORY: Dan Hurley,
welcome to the program.
What a great
introduction for you.
>>DAN HURLEY: Thanks
for having me, George.
>>NOORY: When people
deal with the brain,
they don't get into
it as much as you do.
I read your book, you've been
on the radio show before.
You truly really dive into this.
Now, how did that all start?
I mean you're an
award-winning science writer.
You didn't just wake
up one day saying,
I want to concentrate on
writing about brain power.
What happened?
>>HURLEY: Well, I
think most of us
assume that IQ and intelligence
is something you're born with.
That's why they give
you a test and that's
supposed to be your limit.
That's how smart you are,
you're not going to change.
And I did an article five
years ago about Alberto Costa,
a scientist who in fact used
to be here both in Boulder.
And he was developing
a medicine that
could be given to people
with Down syndrome
to help them increase
their intelligence.
I wrote an article about that
for the New York Times Magazine
and then I said, if you can help
disabled people get smarter,
is there any hope
for the rest of us?
And I found out that there is a
great deal of research going on
and that it's a
really exciting field.
>>NOORY: Hey, Dan, what
creates the difference
between someone who is smart
and somebody who is not?
Is it just the brain, is it
something within that person?
What does that?
>>HURLEY: So
intelligence has been
studied better than almost
anything by psychologists
for over 100 years.
And the first IQ tests were
developed about 100 years ago
and scientists are still
struggling to understand
what it is about the brain.
It's not just one place,
it's the whole brain
and how it communicates
with each spot.
There's some evidence
that the size
of the brain, the size
of certain sections
are associated
with intelligence.
But mostly, it's things that
are very hard to see visually
by an MRI, say.
>>NOORY: If you bump
your head, if you damage
a portion of your brain,
will that affect, then,
the overall outlook
of your ability to
have this brain power?
>>HURLEY: Well, we know there
are countless things you
can do to make yourself dumber.
You can bump your brain.
I mean you can get concussions
and serious repeated head
trauma we know are
going to have an effect.
You can spend your days
watching TV-- not this show.
But if you're watching Rocky
and Bullwinkle all day,
this is not going to help you.
Exposure to trauma,
to abuse, getting
addicted to drugs,
alcohol, all these things--
not being physically
fit-- all of these things
are going to have a slow
effect on your brain.
>>NOORY: How come in the morning
and sometimes when people wake
up, some people can hit the deck
running and they're just ready
to go and other people can't?
They're groggy, they're slow,
they're not thinking right,
they don't even talk right.
Why is there that difference?
>>HURLEY: Yeah.
That is to do with
there are morning people
and there are night people,
and scientists know this.
I mean you can see this
in tests of people.
There are people that literally
perform better in the morning.
And it has to do with
your circadian rhythms,
with your melatonin levels, and
just the way your entire body
is cycling.
I know that if I have to go
for a run in the morning,
I struggle a lot more than when
I go in the late afternoon.
>>NOORY: I'm not
a coffee drinker,
but there are a lot of people
who are coffee drinkers.
They need that little
caffeine burst to get going.
Does that help the
brain, hurt the brain?
What does that do?
>>HURLEY: Coffee
absolutely helps.
>>NOORY: It does?
>>HURLEY: There's no question.
>>NOORY: And I'm not
a coffee drinker.
>>HURLEY: Yeah, well--
>>NOORY: Go figure.
>>HURLEY: Another
strange one, people
are always asking
about drugs to improve
your cognitive abilities.
There is that movie and
then TV show Limitless.
And actually, all
the drugs that exist
are just stimulants essentially,
and, really all they're doing
is waking you up more.
But the one medicine
that is known to work
is called nicotine,
maybe you've heard of it.
>>NOORY: That's in cigarettes.
>>HURLEY: Well,
so cigarettes bad;
nicotine without a cigarette.
So if you're using a nicotine
patch, which I actually
use a seven milligram, the
lowest dose, nicotine patch.
I wrote an entire
article, there's
a lot in my book about it.
>>NOORY: You use the patch
just for brain power?
>>HURLEY: Yes.
There is a reason
why people want
to smoke beyond
just being addicted,
that it actually does
stimulate your brain.
And it's not just
that it wakes you up,
it actually makes
you more alert,
more able to pay
attention to what
you want to pay attention to.
This is why we can all think
of Sigmund Freud with his cigar
and Winston Churchill.
It's more than just to have it.
And if you cannot
use the tobacco,
which is not going to help you,
if you can just use nicotine,
it can actually help.
>>NOORY: Will the nicotine
kick in right away?
>>HURLEY: It does,
pretty quickly.
>>NOORY: And you
see the difference
when you're not under it?
>>HURLEY: So I have used
it for a couple of years
and I started
noticing immediately
that on the days that
I thought to put it on,
because I was just testing
it after reading about it,
I would get home from
the end of the day
and notice that I
had been really sharp
that day, working
really efficiently.
And on days that I just
forgot to put it on,
I was maybe struggling
a little bit more.
So it's something that can help.
>>NOORY: And so when you see
people smoke with their coffee,
they're really getting bursts.
>>HURLEY: Well, yeah, except
that cigarettes are not healthy
and it's not good for
your brain, either.
So cigarettes would not
be the way to do it.
>>NOORY: What
about nicotine gum?
>>HURLEY: That can also help.
>>NOORY: That's an
interesting thing.
I've never known about that.
>>HURLEY: That's crazy.
Yeah.
I wrote a whole
article about it.
I had a hard time convincing
my editors because everybody
thinks nicotine is bad.
It's not nicotine so much, it
is the stuff that comes with.
>>NOORY: What about things like
ginkgo biloba that they say
is supposed to help your brain?
>>HURLEY: So there are
people that swear by it.
But when they do studies,
scientific studies,
placebo controlled,
they don't find much.
So I don't know
about the ginkgo.
I think there are better ways.
It's funny because
you think ginkgo,
natural, this has got to
be good where nicotine, you
think is evil, the
worst thing possible.
So reality doesn't always
follow our preconceptions.
>>NOORY: Got a little
six-year-old grandson-- got
a lot of grandsons in St.
Louis-- but the little guy,
Simon, I've noticed when
he plays video games he's
sharper than a tack.
I mean he's there doing
his thing moving, it,
and I'm looking at him.
And he was doing
this when he was four
and I'm saying,
how in the heck can
a little four-year-old have
that kind of dexterity,
have that kind of ability
to interact like that?
Does that help?
>>HURLEY: So the whole
field of video game studies
began when some psychologists
were testing themselves
on these tests of
mental performance,
speed of processing it's called.
And the one guy happened to do
really well, better than you're
supposed to be able to do.
And he asked the same of his
friends, well, what's going on?
And he had some of
his friends do it.
And they tried to figure
out, what's going on?
We're doing better than
you're supposed to be
able to do on these tests.
And this was a guy at the
University of Wisconsin.
And they realized
that the ones that
were playing these video
games were doing better.
And it's now been
shown repeatedly
that lots of these video games
where you're following things--
>>NOORY: Where the
brain is moving fast.
>>HURLEY: Yeah.
You are outperforming
what people
thought were the standard
human limits of performance.
>>NOORY: Are you
literally training
your brain when you do
something like that?
>>HURLEY: There's no
question that you are.
I mean you are training-- that's
the thing that people have
to remember, you're training
your brain every day,
every minute.
The notion that your
IQ just sits there
and that's what
you're born with-- I
mean we know that
if you exercise,
you get stronger, right?
And if you just sit around,
you're going to get weaker.
So the brain responds
in the same way.
In fact, the brain responds
perhaps even faster
than the body does.
And it's a day to day thing.
And that's why doing
things to stay active
makes such a difference.
>>NOORY: All things
considered when a baby is born
and another baby
is born, are they
generally the same
brain-wise, assuming
there's no medical condition?
That when they're born,
they are functioning
brains that should work
at the same rate and pace?
>>HURLEY: Well, there are
differences, we all know it.
We all know it from--
>>NOORY: I mean Einstein had
a different brain than I do,
for example.
>>HURLEY: Yes.
And I mean in first
grade, every kid knows.
They look around
at their classmates
and we all have done it,
we've all been there.
And we kind of sort out
who's the sharp ones
and who's the one
that's not getting it,
who's the one that's for
whatever reason is not
doing as well.
And there are absolutely
individual differences.
The question is, can you
increase your ability,
can you catch up?
And we also know that there are
those sharp kids in high school
and in college who
are brilliant students
and you meet them 10
years later and they're
working at a fast
food joint or they're
living in the basement--
>>NOORY: Or they own
the fast food joint.
>>HURLEY: Well, they
might be if they're really
putting it to work.
But the question is,
what are you doing
with the gifts you were given?
Are you working them,
are you increasing them,
or are you just
going to squander
the gifts you've been given?
>>NOORY: I know in high school,
I knew some people, some guys,
who were just lousy at
science and biology and math
and studies like that.
But you put them in
auto mechanics or shop
and they exceeded way
beyond the rest of us.
How does that work?
>>HURLEY: Absolutely there's
different competencies.
We all have different abilities.
Some people are
great at dancing.
I mean you wouldn't have
asked Fred Astaire to do math
and you probably wouldn't
have asked Einstein
to dance in the movies.
So we all have
our own strengths.
And there is another thing
that makes people excel,
which is wisdom and
decision-making.
And one of the most exciting
parts of the research that's
been going on in this
area of brain training
is that some of the strongest
effects are on decision-making.
So people that are book smart,
but when they go off and try
to run a business they just
can't-- they hire the wrong
people, they make the wrong
deals, they get suckered,
they're too fast to anger--
these people need help
in decision-making and
wisdom and that is one
of the strongest effects that
brain training has been shown
to have.
>>NOORY: Where does memory
come into some of this?
>>HURLEY: So memory, a lot
of us think about memory
as intelligence.
So people think that if
you can memorize a speech--
and this used to be back
in the day, in the 1920s,
they would have--
even into the 1950s,
they would have
kids memorize poems.
All our grandparents know how
to-- they can review some poem
they learned, some
speech they learned.
And educators began realizing
that just spitting back things
is not the same as intelligence.
Even they've done studies
where people that learn-- we've
all heard of these
people that you
can read them a
random list of numbers
and they can
memorize 100 or they
can memorize the names of
everyone in the audience.
>>NOORY: I've had a guest
on, his name's Jim Carroll.
You throw out a zip code
and he'll tell you the city.
Amazing.
>>HURLEY: So it's amazing,
but these kinds of things
turn out to be more
like parlor tricks.
They're cool, they're
amazing, but they don't seem
to have any effect beyond that.
So you can know every
zip code, but are you
any better at reading a
book and understanding
it; are you any better at
thinking through a problem
and at your job
working out a solution?
Can you really use
your mind the way
people have to do every day?
And that's where the
kinds of tasks that I've
been focused on really do help.
>>NOORY: We're with, of course,
award-winning author and writer
Dan Hurley, talking about
brain power, his book, Smarter.
We just talked a little bit
about the games and what
about electrical stimulation?
So let's take a look.
REPORTER: He showed
me how his research
team builds computer
models to predict
how current hits the brain.
>>HURLEY: And what
you're looking at here
is what shows up
actually at the brain.
Warmer colors represent
more current flow.
You can see here's one
electrode, here's the other.
The red square is
the anode electrode
and the blue square is
the cathode electrode.
The simplest way
to think about is
the anode is the positive
terminal of the battery
and the cathode is the negative
and your head is the circuit.
REPORTER: When TDCS is applied
in lab settings like this,
it's typically no more than
two milliamps of electricity,
about the amount needed to
power a small LED light bulb.
The amount that actually
reaches the cortex of the brain
after passing through
layers of skin, skull, fat,
and cerebrospinal
fluid is even smaller.
>>HURLEY: So what the
brain is being bathed in
is actually a very, very low
level of direct current flow
passing along the neurons.
The brain is super
sensitive to electricity
because the brain
uses electricity.
The neurons in the
brain have a voltage
across them and for
a neuron at rest,
which is sort of like a neuron
sitting around and doing
nothing, that's around
minus 80 millivolts.
If that voltage starts to
increase for some reason
and if it increases enough to
what's called a threshold that
might be around minus 60
millivolts, it on its own
then makes a decision to
fire and action potential.
>>NOORY: That was fascinating.
Now, do some people
have the ability
to increase their electrical
power of the brain?
>>HURLEY: Well,
George, I actually
underwent this procedure of
transcranial direct current
stimulation.
It's being studied
at top universities
all around the world.
I did it at the University
of Pennsylvania,
then I went up to a Harvard's
Neurostimulation Laboratory
and spent five days
getting stimulated.
I wrote an article about it for
the New York Times Magazine.
>>NOORY: Does it increase?
>>HURLEY: Absolutely.
What's really crazy is you
think of this idea of putting
electricity on your
head and they think, oh,
it's shock therapy, you're
going to get zapped.
You can't even feel it really.
It's so mild.
It's hard to detect.
And when they start it, you
sort of feel it for a little bit
and after about 20 seconds,
your mind no longer notices it.
And in fact, it's so mild that
they can do placebo treatments
by just turning
off the electricity
and you can't tell
the difference,
whether it's on or not.
And they've done studies showing
this is one of the best ways
to strengthen the
effects of training.
Now, you need to be doing
something while you're
undergoing the treatment.
I did it just 15 minutes
a day for five days
and I was doing various
brain training games.
And I got the strongest
jump in my ability
while I was doing this.
>>NOORY: Do you think
somewhere in some government
lab they are testing
people to try
to increase their brain power?
>>HURLEY: Oh, I know that are.
So the Naval
Research Laboratory,
the Office of Naval Research,
and a group called IARPA, which
is part of the intelligence--
>>NOORY: Sounds
like part of DARPA.
>>HURLEY: It's like DARPA, which
is the Defense Advanced Project
Research, but it's for
the intelligence offices--
not intelligence like IQ,
intelligence like spies.
And IARPA is for
trying to do research
that will help America's spying
capacities and intelligence
research.
And they are funding
studies and they're
funding studies of
TDCs, they're funding
studies of brain training,
physical training,
of mindfulness meditation.
And they're seeing
great results.
One of the things that's
been most encouraging to me
is that this is not
just in universities,
that the US military
and intelligence
department think
this is something
that can really help us.
>>NOORY: At one
point, the military
had a very secret
remote viewing program
underway where many
of those participants
have been on my radio
show, "Coast to Coast AM."
But these people were
training to do remote viewing,
to see what the enemy was doing
by letting their minds go out
into the space.
>>HURLEY: Well, yeah.
The US government wants
to-- I mean anything
that can give us an edge.
What I find really impressive
is that these studies
are getting published
in top medical journals.
This is considered legitimate,
mainstream, real science
that-- I mentioned
that I began getting
interested in this
because of research
into folks with Down syndrome.
So what's interesting is that
Defense Department people,
these are people who are
already high level folks,
they're already doing great.
And the notion that you can
make them even smarter really
makes you stop and go, well,
what is the limit here?
>>NOORY: People with
Alzheimer's disease,
which contributes
to loss of memory,
loss of just about everything
with the brain, what's
causing that?
>>HURLEY: So people
are still trying,
scientists are still
trying to understand that.
I write a lot for
"Neurology Today," which
is the newspaper of the
American Academy of Neurology
and they know what happens when
people start developing it,
but they still are not
clear on why it happens
and what they can do exactly.
>>NOORY: It's like a short
circuit in the brain.
Something's happening.
>>HURLEY: Yeah.
I mean parts of the
brain begin just not--
you can see decay of the brain.
There is beta amyloid
is almost like literally
gumming up the works.
So brain training regarding for
folks with Alzheimer's and even
something called mild cognitive
impairment, brain training,
it's not clear that it will
help people at that level.
So if you're already--
>>NOORY: It may be too late.
>>HURLEY: --going
down the hole, yeah.
But for people that are
simply older adults,
they've been finding
great effects.
There is a major study
involved about 3,000 people,
10-year study.
They did 10 hours of
training for people.
10 years later, they
were still showing
major effects on
people's ability,
activities of daily living,
their ability to reason.
And incredibly,
they showed people
who trained in this special way
had half the risk of getting
in car crashes-- half.
>>NOORY: Half?
Dramatic.
>>HURLEY: Half the risk
of getting in a car crash.
And this is now-- some
insurance companies
will offer this to people.
It's called the useful
field of view training.
There is a company
called Brain HQ,
there's a website
called brainhq.com,
and people can go on
there and do these
and it really has
been shown to work.
>>NOORY: What about things
like eating blueberries.
does that help?
The taste good.
>>HURLEY: They taste good.
I love blueberries.
I love fish and
everybody's grandmother
said fish is brain food.
>>NOORY: It's the
omega, I think.
>>HURLEY: Yeah.
There's not any great
scientific evidence
that this stuff truly works.
I would say that
being overweight
is definitely associated with
reduced abilities, having
type 2 diabetes is
going be associated
with reduced capacity.
So the total effect
of what you eat
is more important,
it seems, than
the individual ingredients.
I mean I wouldn't
recommend anyone
to have a diet of
hamburgers and milkshakes,
but that's for a
million reasons.
>>NOORY: I'm a
supplement freak, Dan.
>>HURLEY: Yes.
Great.
>>NOORY: I'll take
the blueberries,
I'll take supplements,
I'll do all that.
I also found one
thing, too, that I
think early retirement
contributes to the brain
kind of shriveling up.
I have found that in a lot
of people who just retire,
don't do much.
They seem to break
down a little quicker.
>>HURLEY: Well, that's
absolutely the message
that people need to
understand is that their brain
is a living thing.
And if you are not
challenging it constantly,
it's like a shark, it's got
to keep moving to stay alive.
If your brain is not getting
challenged, it is shrinking.
It might shrink literally,
but it's definitely
going to shrink in capacity.
And you've got to
be challenging it.
That's the through
line of all the things
that I studied that help.
Whether it's doing brain
games on a computer,
whether it's learning
a musical instrument,
doing new physical
exercise, you've
got to do things that
you're not used to doing.
Learning novel tasks,
challenging yourself
just like you got
challenged back in school.
That's why it's not an accident
that kids are so sharp.
It's that they're
learning every day.
Every day new stuff
is going on, where
when you're older
you've been there,
you've done that,
everything seems the same.
So it's time to shake things
up, try something new,
do something you've
never done before.
>>NOORY: We've got some emails
in from a lot of our listeners
and a lot of people
know what you do.
Darren from South Lake Tahoe
in California says, I'm 72
and I'm concerned
about my memory.
Is there anything I can do at
my age to improve it/ can you
improve the memory
of a 72-year-old?
>>HURLEY: Absolutely.
And memory, per se,
I mean where you
left your keys is a lot
less important than being
able to balance your
checkbook, right?
Because you can find your keys,
but if you can't figure things
out, make sense of things,
if you can't plan a menu,
this is where things
start really getting tough
for your life.
And this is where,
again, trying new things.
Physical exercise is
one of the best ways
to improve your mental capacity.
Brain games, I think one of
the best sites is BrainHQ.
They've got tons of
studies published
in peer reviewed scientific
literature showing
great effects.
They're going after FDA approval
for some of their treatments.
There's really good reason.
I think it's-- a lot of
people heard about Lumosity.
Earlier in January, they
were fined $2 million
for making exaggerated
claims and there really
are fewer studies supporting
Lumosity, where BrainHQ
has a wealth of data behind it.
And I have no relationship
with either company,
I'm just telling you
what I know from looking
at the scientific literature.
>>NOORY: Corinna from
Santa Fe, New Mexico,
writes, I have a child who is
struggling in school with ADHD.
I don't like the medications.
Can bring training help him?
>>HURLEY: Yes.
There are hundreds of
studies now showing that you
can help kids with ADHD.
There is also a
research into helping
kids who have been afflicted
with diseases, including
even cancer, where
chemotherapy and radiation has
been shown to really
have significant effects
on their IQ.
And there's hundreds
of studies now showing
that working memory
training, it's
called working memory training--
there's a program called Cogmed
and that's available only
through trained psychologists.
It's a little pricey.
I think it's about--
I don't know,
I think it's about
$2,000 or something.
But they take you through
a series of brain training
programs on a computer
that you can do at home
and it's been shown to
improve working memory.
And BrainHQ is
also good for that.
And I would also suggest
just musical training,
physical training,
anything they can
do to stimulate
themselves and challenge
themselves is going to help.
>>NOORY: Well, one of the
things I've gone and done
for myself, Dan, is I like
to sing at some of my events
and I have learned that learning
songs, memorizing the words
and just getting
it down has really
helped my brain power as well.
>>HURLEY: I learned to
play the Renaissance lute.
>>NOORY: Why?
>>HURLEY: Yeah.
Because I had seen one years
ago when I was in England
and I heard a guy
playing it and I said,
that is cool and one day
when I'm bald like that guy,
I'm going to get a lute.
And of course, I never did.
But then when I looked at
the scientific literature,
it says that learning a musical
instrument, musical training
really--
>>NOORY: Singing
or an instrument.
>>HURLEY: Singing,
an instrument,
it really pushes your mind.
What's interesting
about an instrument
is that when you're holding
the fret board over here
and then you're
fingering it over here
and you've got to do all
these things at once,
that's just like what your
brain is trying to do.
It's trying to do
multiple things at once.
And forcing yourself to
synchronize all those things
is a real great challenge.
So one thing I will say is
just doing the same things
over and over.
So if you're still playing
those Beatles songs
you learned in 1973,
playing them is fun
and it's going to help
you stay where you are,
but if you want to grow,
learn some new stuff.
Try out new instrument or
learn new songs like you do.
>>NOORY: And Dan,
our final email
here from Sandy in Sioux
Falls South Dakota,
I don't want to waste
a lot of time doing
all sorts of crazy things.
What's the one kind of brain
training that works the best?
>>HURLEY: I would
try brainhq.com.
That would probably
be the most efficient.
It's 10, 15 minutes
a day that you
might do for five weeks
three times a week.
And that's been shown to
have significant benefits.
It's a computer game and what's
really cool about these games
and what's really different
about them is instead of just
learning a
memorization thing, it
makes your brain have to do
things, take what's given,
and do something with them.
So instead of
remembering 1-9-7-5-2,
you have to give it backwards or
the numbers are moving forward
and you have to keep track,
even as the numbers are moving
forward, of what the number was
over here as the numbers are
still-- so you're kind of
keeping track three units
behind.
These are crazy mind benders.
Some of them will make you
want to pick up a computer
and throw it across your own.
Chess is a great game for
seeing the big picture
and using strategy.
That is one of the games.
If you're going to do
that, it's much better
than, say, crossword puzzles.
Especially for
people that have done
crossword puzzles for years and
think that that's the best way,
really trying something
new like chess,
like some of these brain
games, can really help.
>>NOORY: So with
exercise, with training,
with the right foods
and supplements,
you really can keep
that brain sharp.
Because I have seen some
people in their nineties
who are absolutely brilliant.
They're funny, they're
conversational,
and they don't act their age.
>>HURLEY: Right.
Have you ever noticed that
conductors, classical music
conductors, always seem to
die at like 98 or something?
>>NOORY: Always old, yeah.
Or comedians.
>>HURLEY: Comedians, anyone one
who is really using their mind.
It really helps you keep going.
So to the degree that
you're just checking out
and figure that
your time is done,
that's the wrong
attitude to bring.
You've got to be in it.
You've got to keep going.
>>NOORY: So maybe
then, Dan, there's
a connection between the
youthful brain and keeping
it young and the
rest of your body.
>>HURLEY: Absolutely.
Physical exercise is
one of the best ways.
There are some wonderful
videos that if you search
on Google or YouTube
for exercise is power,
you will find these great videos
created by a scientist, Theresa
Lou Ambrose.
And she has shown that
strength training-- I'm not
talking about
lifting 500 pounds,
but just doing gentle
weight training that slowly
increases-- stuff
you can do at home,
you don't even have to go
to a gym-- can really help.
I mean walking,
anything that is just
slightly challenging for you
and to keep ramping it up
as you get better.
This is one of the fastest ways
to improve your brain power.
>>NOORY: How can people
get a hold of you?
>>HURLEY: They can go to
my website, danhurley.com.
My books are available
in bookstores and Amazon.
>>NOORY: Well, it works.
It works.
And I think more
people like you need
to get involved
in helping people,
sharpening up their skills
and their brain power.
>>HURLEY: Absolutely.
I think it's a shame that
so many kids and people that
are struggling and
wanting to do better
are not getting the tools
they need to improve.
And scientists are
doing great work
to bring this stuff to people.
And if you read my book, you
can find out all these methods
that really do work.
>>NOORY: So if you're
a parent and your kid
wants to play a video
game, should you let them?
>>HURLEY: Well, video
games in moderation.
All things in moderation.
Video games can
have, as we said,
surprising benefits
for certain aspects
of cognition and thinking.
What really works is
those piano lessons
that kids hate can also help.
And letting them trying
Cogmed, trying BrainHQ,
doing mental math, learning
a musical instrument,
physical exercise.
You can't forget to let that
kid out and run around and use
all parts of their body.
>>NOORY: Super.
Dan, thanks for being
on "Beyond Belief."
>>HURLEY: Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: Sharpen your
brain, sharpen your life.
It's that simple.
I'm George Noory and
this is "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]